---
layout: post
title: Couchdb - Filtering Views by Parts of a Complex Key
---

h1. {{page.title}}

p(meta). 30 Mar 2011

Recently I had to sort a CouchDB view based on date while filtering that view by user and status.

In CouchDB, I knew that sorting of view results is based upon the key. Therefore, I needed a way to filter by part of a complex key ( e.g. field1 and field 2 from [field1, field2, field3], which in my case would have been user and status from [user, status, date] ). But where do you go with a question like this if the internet doesn't want to play ball? IRC of course!

*Summary*: You have to use *startkey=* & *endkey=* if you want to filter by part of a complex key. If you want to filter using just *key=*, all parts of the complex key must be specified or you will get a null result, as *key=* is looking for an exact match.

Note that when filtering by part of the complex key, you can only filter by in-order combinations. For example, if you had *[field1, field2, field3]* as a key, you could only filter by *[key1]*, *[key1, key2]* or *[key1, key2, key3]* (in their respective orders).

<pre style="white-space: pre-wrap;">
<code>
<ryankirkman> How do I create a view that lets me filter by two arbitrary fields, and is ordered by date?
<ryankirkman> I am thinking now that I will have to use a startkey and endkey, with the date of the startkey set to some early date, and the date of the endkey set to some very distant date
<ryankirkman> And use a complex key like [field1, field2, date]
<okurow> ryankirkman: then you have to use field1 AND field 2
<okurow> and its sorted by 1.field1 2. field3 and 3rd date
<okurow> user [date,field1,field2] .. then you can use either field1, OR field1 & field2
<ryankirkman> okurow: That's cool
<okurow> and [date,field2,field1] then you can use date, either field2 OR field2 & field 1
<ryankirkman> I see
<ryankirkman> okurow: But is my assumption and the start and end key correct?
<ryankirkman> okurow: I feel like there has to be a nicer solution, but I can't think of it
<okurow> then startkey=[fromdate,key1]&endkey=[todate,key1,{}]
<ryankirkman> okurow: I can just omit values of the complex key?
<okurow> ryankirkman: ?? dont understand your question
<ryankirkman> I was under the impression that when filtering by complex key, if you had [date, field1, field2], you would have to specify all values
<ryankirkman> in your example above, you omitted key2 from the startkey
<okurow> ryankirkman: no
<okurow> just from left to right
<okurow> if you emit [date,key1,key2] you cannot seach for [date,key2] ...
<okurow> but you can use startkey=[date]&endkey=[date,{} to have all without key1,key2
<okurow> ( you will get key1,key2 in the list )
<ryankirkman> what does the null object at the end do?
<ryankirkman> I feel like it has higher order than anything your view may return, so you use it as a hack to get all results
<okurow> if you do not use it, the result will be null, cause, the range from start to end is zero ( endkeys are normally not included in the resultlist)
<ryankirkman> ahhh
<ryankirkman> It's interesting that I can't just do " key=[date] "
<okurow> so the endkey must be something that is higher than the expected last result
<okurow> you can.. but only if you emit (date)
<okurow> whenever you have a complex key.. you have to use startkey&endkey
</code>
</pre>
